                  interview questions ? 
 Q: why field work? 
 A: allows me to help others while using my skills. 
 challenge me to learn new skills and upgrade the existing ones. 
 hands on work build experience like no other and i get work others in the field with a common goal.
 
 Q: diagnosit method ? 
 A: gather information such network diagram
    what happened leading to malfunction, observe the equipment, 
   review error messages/logs.
   any changes made. what were they trying to go for. 
   basic troubleshooting--. checking connections, rebooting, running diagnositc tests
   narros down the problem to specific comp/subsystem
   identify potential solutions
   test and verify and document
   
 Q: obstacle occured ? 
 A: assess the situation/nature of obstacle
    consult techinical doc, reach out to colleages, vendors for advice
    Experimentation in environment and if possible in seperate envir
    implement, test verify and communicate with end users, other memmbers
    
 Q: handle cust. serice? 
 A:  professional, curtous, respectful about their problems. 
     communicate in an exploring manner, ask questions. help them walk through their tech issue
     set realistic expectations. explain the process, timelines, keep them updated
     go above and beyond, staying late, finish the job, offer to help with additonal training
     follow up, additonal questions. 
     
 Q: client meeting preparation ? 
 A: review client needs, identify potential issues, challenges that may need to be addressed
    research on the nature of their job
    prepare a presentation, clear, concise, relevant
    prepare and anticipate questions, respons quickly
    confitm logistics, date time, location, equipment
    dress properly
    arrive early. gives me time to set up and review notes
    
 Q: latest tech keep up? 
 A:  attend industry events, workshops, latest trends, networking
     read industory publications --. blogs, magazines, wired magazine is my long time fav, techcrunch is another one which analysis reviews products and services. computeworld, information week, ZDNet couvers hardware--> netgear wifi6. 
 Q: what tech/system you used ?
 A: 12v powerless drill-- 
    anti-static wrist straps--
    multimeters--
    crimpers--
    cable testers--
    software-- --> 
    network analyzers --> packet sniffers ( network taffic)
    scanners --> to map out network, nmap, angry ip, advanced, Fing fo phones, solar winds,
    softperfect 
    packet analyzer --> wireshark
    wireless --> kismet can find access points, netspot to check wifi signal strength, coverag
    interference
    network mgmt system --> centralised monitoring, 

Q: previous repair ? 
A: last repair was on printer issue. test page failed. power was av
   checked it's web interface, status was offline
   checked connectivity, didn't responded to pings
   checked the network sswitch and link LED for printer port was off
   unplugged the cable from port and tested it anothe port, it worked.
   tested the port with loopback plug, it was faulty so replaced it.
   pulled the port out from switch chassis, installed a new port
   and made sure it was aligned wiht retaining chip, screw the 
   retaining clip
   tested the port, it worked
   tested connectivity 
   updated documentation. 
Q: How do you plan your day ? 
A: start by reviewing to do list, overview of what needs to be done
   I'll priortize tasks based on level of urgency/importance.
   allocate time for each task based on complexity and time required.
   e.g. if it needs a lot of concentration, i'll give it a priority
   factor in unexpected tasks . usually fexible and collaborate
   with team, share knowlegde and ask questions. 
   aim to complete tasks before time and meet deadlines. 

Q: VLAN ? 
A: group devices in logical structure. assign vlan id to each group
  that id is added to network packet header by switch
  Qos rules, security policies, highe degree

Q: VLAN config ? 
A: incorrect id, device assigned to 20 but vlan configured to 30
   device is assigned but switch port not
   trunking needs to config b/w two switches so devicds on different vlan's can communicate
   i have seen duplication as well, same id, 2 departments

Q: best practice? 
A: test and document
   config vlan id, memebers, trunking
   assign devices, computers, pritners, servers
   test connectiviy
   test trunking
   acl's 

Q: trunk ?
A: conig ports as trunks--> switchport mode trunk
   config devices to tag traffic with vlan id. tagging option in adaptor settings

Q: vpn ? 
A: 
   


Q: challenging repair ? 
A: One of instances was when i went to a store office to troubleshoot a computer problem. Wasn't booting up, disk boot failure. 
I used the SMART status and there was high number Reallocated sector count and cuurent pending secotr count was high as well. 
used Testdisk software to scan the partitions and analysed the data
that could be recovered. 

During my time, we had new builing constructed. few department were moved there. I got learn about business requirement side before network infrastructure. identifying the appls,services, expected traffic volume,number of users, 

Q: install software ? 
A: download --> close programs, run installer
configure settings such as auto scans, real time protection, firewall
settings
update antivirus
perform full system scan. 

Q: Cabling ? 
A: experience with 
   cat 5e - 1gb, cat 6 - 10gb 55 and cat 6a has 100m, cat 7 10gb with 100m
   cat 7 has more more bandwidth, shield better, requires GG45
  white orange, orange, white green, blue blue white green white brown br
  COAXIAL --> RG6 and RG-11 
              3ghz/100m    1GHz/400m
  USB --> 12MBPS, 480 and 3.0 has 5gbps

Q: printer troubleshooting 
A: identigy probolem, errors, physical 
   basics hardware, sound
   software, drivers, settings in print server, 
   check physical damage with paper feed, cartridges if not leaking, power connections
   in good health, paper traey, paper guides are aligning, 
   rollers/moving parts, fuser assembly, print head. 
   test and isolate
   heating issues. 

Q: test a cable ? 
A: visual inspection --> correct connection(walljack to switches and then devices)
  , damage such as kinks, cuts, frayed wires, 
   continuity test with multimeter and check if circuit is complete
   resistance test and make sure it indicates low
   certification tests get done in data centers --> to check impedence, attentuation other metrics. you need certified technicians with some expensive tools like cable certifier. 

Q: tools? 
A: flashlight
   blinky tester to check crossover, short circuit, conductors hooked up
   ruler for bend radius

Q: cable troubleshooting ? 
A: check electrical continuity with blinky tester
   check if it's terminated at home or at factory. either way, reterminate one or both ends and make sure color sequence is correct
   check for CCA conductors as well, almunium mixed, less costly
   BANDWIDTH issue 
   check for keystone jacks /RG45 plugs --> if it's fiting to conductor, quality of termination,reterminate if necessary
   check for high ambient temperature, reduce max cable length if necessary
   still having issues, last check for kins and cuts, 
   install new cable and take care of installation tension while installing it, 25ft-lbs

                                            swtiches  
Q: common issues? 
A: connectivity poort: loose cables, misconfigured ports, faulty hardware
   slow net--> congestion, outdated firmware, misconfigured ports
   VLAN --> 
   NOT POWERING ON
   check the source, if switch is plugged and power source is working
   power cable is connected and has electrical continuity, use multimeter to measure voltage
   if +- terminals reading matches the specifications of source
   try different outlet, battery
   check for signs of physical damage, broken power button/damaged port
      
                                                 PATCH PANE
Q: troubleshhot? 
A: cables, ports damage, connectors, termination points, bend radius,circuits connected to connectors
   config --> labeles are correct, use toner proble to confirm that
   check for interference --> spectrum ana, multimeter, wifi ana, oscilloscope, signal generator

Q: network performance ? 
A: identify which devices are taking more bandwidth, QOS
   firmware check for switch/panel
   ports
   cable issues

Q: network issues ? 
A: cable issues, connections malfunctoning. 
incorrect config such as IP looping, routing
software incompatibility and version mismatches. 
traffic overload, a node is overburded, cable limit
network ip problems such DNS misconfig, subnet masks, routing IP. 

Q: Network troubleshooting ? 
A: hardwre inspection
   Ping --> reception, round trip times 
   ipconfig--> TCP/ip, DHCP assigning ip's. 
   ping and tracert  and send ICMP echos. Sometimes host discovery is disabled on some devices
   DNS check for server issues retrieves server records for domain/ip address. 
   malware check

Q: netstat ? 
A: stats for in/out connections if particular con. is eastablished
, routing tables,active/listening ports
   TCP/UDP endpoints --> which protocol is genarting most traffic
   netstat -e gives me interface stat, bytes, packets recived/dropped. 
   netstat -n will display connections w/out resolving ip-hostnames. 

Q: protocol analyzer ? 
A: flow of data between source/dest. check latecy types, channels. 

Q: FTP server connectivity?
A: server status. ping it test the connectivity--> 


   firewall settings, port 20/21 open
   credentials --> user/pass correct, client side is using right protocols
   software updates
   disk space available
   ftp user permissions

Q: Cpu issues ? 
A: overheatings--> 
   slow --> 
   comptatibility --> motherboard, BIOS
   damage --> power surges, physical, manufacturing
   Overclocking --> risk of overheating
   Malware --> 

   ESXTOP --> monitor/analyze performance of resources- cpu, memory, disk,network. 
   part of ESXi hypervisor --> 
   ALTERNATIVES --> TOP, TASK MANAGER, RESOURCE MONITOR,PERFON

Q: browser issues ?
A: updates
   run it in safe mode--. add on extensions might be an issue, isolate that by checking chrome task manger(check cpu usage), firefox has similar profiler to recod and reproduce the issue 
   cache/cookies
   malware windows
   reset it to default

Q: NO output detected ? 
A: check power source is connected, physical condition of cable, 
   use multimeter to voltage range, usually 120v
   power supply tester
   try a different cord
                  source incorrect
   correct input channels
   resolution--. display might be out of sync with iput signal, video card set to higher display
   graphics card

Q: dead PC? 
A: BIOS can be used --> USB Boot option--> advanced options
cmd --> notepad-> open files and select external disc
 take out the hard drive and use SATA to USB connector to 
 connect to to another pC and assign it a drive letter from
 disc mgmt. 
 software recover solutions.

Q: solar winds ? 
A: Network path monitor
   Netpath network path analysis
   Perfstatck

Q: upper layer issues ?
A: 

Q: LAN connectivity issue ? 
A: ping destination ip if they are same subnet
   ping default gateway if destination on different sub
   if both fails, check the routing table to see if subnet and route are properly defined--> commands wll differ, cisco's have show ip route--> should give me sub,next hop, exit int,routing protocol.
   check if host can ping another hop in the LAN

Q: DISC error ? 
A: BIOS can't detect bootable device
   1. check non-bootable storage media such as a usb drive attachd.
   2. check SATA cable on HDD or NVE's if using ssd --> 
   3. check the BIOS if HDD/SDD drive are set as primary disc
   4. check the boot order
   4. window tools --> event v, check disk, perfmon, system file checker sfc /scannow
   5. try to reinstall the hard drive
   6. if nothing works, i'll assume MBR,Boot sector must be damanged, recover the data. booting from usb. 

Q: incremental /differential? 
A: data changed since last incremental vs data changed since last full

Q: test RAM ?
A: boot from seperate bootable system
  my preferable tool is Memtest86 because i can boot it from usb.
Inversion test --> bsod, crashes, stability issues
  writes data into every location and tries to read it to verify if it is stores directly.
  does it multiple times with different patterns.
block move test --> check errors during transfer
Randam number sequence --> 
Bit fade test --> checks if bits changed due to cosmic rays

STRESSAPPTEST --> FOR LINUX AND GITHUB HAS SOURCE

Q: windows restarting in intervals ? 
A: system properties --> startup and recovery
   hardware incompatibiility, driver update
   viruses malware
   overheating, temp gun
   BIOS setup, if doesn't boot after sitting idle--> OS issue

Q: registry ? 
A: centralised database
   configuration settings for system, users, software/hard
   optimize perf by storing info about soft/hard
   troubleshooting--> update fails, i can turn on auot update in software /windows

Q: issueswith WSUS ? 
A: fail to install--> connectivity, disk space, confict
   Fail to download --> connect, firewall, proxy servers
   resource --> slow perf, high cpu
   compatibi--> system requirements, rolling back
   communication with clients

Q: securing ? 
A: updates, patches
   strong password, mfa
   anti-malware, defender isn't too bad
   firewall config, block unnecessary incoming
   use standard user accoung
   disable unnecessary services
   use bitlocker, 
   vpn
   password manager
   backup regularly
   educate myself on phishing/social eng
   audit/review sy logs 

Q: components of computer ? 
A: cpu, brain, executing instrutions from ram, ssd
   MB--. connects everything, buses, circuits
   memory--. holds the data temorarily for cpu
   storage --> 
   Input/output

Q: replace ssd ? 
A: shutdown, disconnect
   case, 
   connect cables to new drive. SATA or M2 interface 
   BIOS to check new drive, may need to enable SATA port
   initialize, format it

Q: different approaches to repair?
A: depends on type of equip,nature of repair, urgency
   Gather info, user, logs, dignostics, manuals.
   evaluate and access the risk/benefit of each option
   consult with others if unsure
   priortize if it is critical
   document

Q: typical approach not working ?
A: research the problem, resources, online forums, tech articles, vendor docs
   consult colleagues- chat groups
   experiment with solutions
   escalate the issue with support, vendor
   Documents

Q: emergency work ? 
A: flexibiility/responsiveness key traits
   Access the urgency nature of the job, plan for it collect any additional tools or people that i might
   communicate with customer and plan the repair immidiately

Q: frustrated customer? 
A: deescalate by remaining calm
   listen actively, gain better understading
   empathize and the can see me receptive
   regular updates
   additional support
   follow up

Q: running late? 
A: communicate with current clietn. 
   prioritize
   with next client, provide estimate
   reschedule 
   learn from the experience: what could have i done differnetly

Q: multiple repair jobs ? 
a: assess teh severity and lenght required
   create a plan- outline the order,estimate the time, extra materials
   communicate with client
   test and verify

Q: troubleshoot with minimum info ? 
A; exact error message
   is it new, old one
   restarting the printer/com/both
   correct driver
   paper tray/
   ink/toner cartridges
   any blinking lights
   try printing with another device. 

q:                                  ABM
A: participating in planning/implementing in new tech
   accurate records of work done
    conduct regular maintianance, updates, backups.

Q: waiting on vendor? 
A: communicate with vendor,keep communication open
   updated the client
   monitor progress
   provide alternative solutions, temporary workarounds/replacement
   escalate if necessary

q: communicate with team member with differ opinion ? 
A: listen actively, understand their point of view
   respect and value their opinion
   provide rationale and evidence for your view
   seek common ground, overlaping opinions and build on them, eastablish a foundation
   for compromise. 
   consider alternatives. 
   reach a consesus and don't let the other person feel that my opinion is dominating

Q: mgmt confilit ? 
A: seek clarification, understand their reasoning, ask questions
   express my concerns if i don't think it's right
   propose alternatives, more effective
   collaborate, seek consensus, best course of aciion
   follow company protocols, complete the task, document my concerts and reasons for disagreement with requested course of action

Q: see yourself ? 
A: gain knowledge about technology preferred by the company and differnt use cases.    
   PSA systeems -->   
   RMM 
   Network --> 
   Documenation -->  
   advanced troubleshooting adn network security, servers.    
   like to work on projects with company, take part in the planning process of infra, migrations, setup, policies and secuity consultants. 
   

   
















































        
     
